Hello and welcome and this lecture.
Something somewhat overdue.
We are going to have a cross-hair in our game which will allow us to heasley to Amy.
We're also going to remove that cross-hair, which is part of a hot general hejab display that we have.
And we're going to be able to remove that when we're displaying our lose or win.
Why?
Let's dive in and see how that happens.
So we'd like some UI to be in our world to show us how much health we've got, but also to give us a
reticule because at the moment or reticule or cross-hair, because at the moment when we're trying to
shoot at someone, it's really hard to do without that reference point.
So we're gonna go over to you.
I fold up against right.
Click in here to create a new user interface widget elements and we're gonna be a WCP prefix and just
McCoole HQ D for heads up display.
Now go ahead and open that up.
I'm going to go ahead and create first of all I cross ham and you could do this with a cross-hair graphics
if you've got one.
So you could use the image component there or what I'm gonna do is just gonna add in text components
and I'm going to put in a plus sign.
And that's gonna be my cross-hair.
Quite simple, really easy to prototype with.
So what I'm going to then do is align my text so that it's justified to the center.
Then I'm going to go up to the slot canvas panel area and I'm going to check size to content like so
so that everything is nice and tight around that cross-hair.
Then I'm going to set up my alignment to be point five and point five.
So that we're lining it to the center of that cross-hair.
And then finally, we want to set up an anchor.
So we're using the centering default.
And then I'm going to set up my position to zero zero so that cross-hair is right smack bang in the
middle.
We don't change the color to red.
So that's nice and easily visible.
There's a cross-hair there.
And maybe I'm also going to increase the size of that cross-hair a little bit.
Let's play see how that feels.
One problem we aren't actually seeing at this cross-hair in the world so that I'm going to have as a
challenge for you, because it is stuff that we've done before in our player controller.
We've created widgets and we've added them to the viewport.
And I want you to do the same again to spawn some heads up display UI.
You're going to add on the player controller begin place and can have to go ahead and add to begin play
to your player controller.
Add configuration to the header file so that you can configure the widget blueprint that you want to
use for the heads up display.
You need to spawner added to the viewport.
Again, this code for that in the play controller that you can borrow from and then you're going to
configure in your blueprint which class that it should be spawning.
So pause video and have a go at the challenge.
Hey, welcome back.
So let's give this a shot, shall we?
Over in the header file for the shooter, player, controller, you can see we've got this setup for
our windscreen Lou's screen and it just above these two.
Well, I want to do is add in a new one, which is going to be at H, you D or HUD class.
So we're gonna have it as a T subclass of the you use a widget.
Then we're going to have to add in our begin play for that.
I'm going to go over to the Gundotra H and copy the declaration from there and take it over to our shooter
player controller Dot H.
And add in the protected section as well.
And go and implement begin play.
And remembering that in begin play we must call to super begin play.
Otherwise things aren't going to work properly.
And finally, I'm going to move this begin play above.
Our game has ended as logically.
That is the order things will happen in.
Then next up, we're going to have to set up the widget well, for that, it's going to be pretty straightforward
because it's going to be exactly the same steps as we've done for setting up the windscreen and the
loose screen are going to copy that over into begin play.
And we're going to give this a shot, basically, instead of using the windscreen class, going to use
the HD class.
And instead of creating a windscreen here, what we're going to do is create a h.
U.
D.
So that's what I'm just gonna call HD.
In all these cases, if HD is not null, then we're going to add it to the viewport.
Let's go over to the editor, compile and see if we can now configure things over in our player controller.
So I'm going to go and open up the BP Chuter player controller.
Open up the full blueprint editor here.
And once your compilation is finished, you should see the HUD class pop in as a variable we can set
at the top.
Right.
So if we click that dropdown, you can see WP, HUD.
That's when we want to select.
Let's go ahead and hit play.
And sure enough, we now have a big, massive Red Cross here, probably too big showing up in our screen.
So let's go and make that for a slightly smaller font, maybe around 47 or something like that.
Go and hit play now.
And that's about.
Decent sized cross has still a little big, in my opinion.
So I'm going to bring that down to about 30.
Try that out.
Yes, that makes sense, too.
Mike.
We're shooting through the center of the screen, then the next thing you'll notice is that if we go
and give our rifle damage again.
So I'm going to go over, open up its full blueprint.
Ed sets damage to 50 so that it kills us off quickly and go and hit play.
Is that we get killed.
Crosshair stays there.
So we want to be able to remove the crosshair.
Now, fortunately, removing is fairly easy because this is all inside the player controller class and
we already get game is ended here.
Well, we want to do is basically remove that HUD from the viewport, whether or not we are the winner
because we're replacing it with other UI here.
However, we can't get hold of that HUD widget that we've created because we created it here and begin
playing.
We didn't save it anyway.
So over in the head of file, I'm going to create a new private variable down near the bottom here.
That is going to be a you use a widget, HUD.
So it's a private variable that we're going to set and begin place.
I'm just gonna remove the type from there, which is going to make sure that we're setting the variable
against the class, which then means that we should have access to that variable over in our game has
ended.
I just noticed that I added the HUD unfortunate to the game and to the gun header rather than the shooter
player controller header, which is actually what I wanted to do.
So now if we go and have a look at game has ended at just before the if statement, I want to remove
it from the viewport so we can do HUD, which we now have access to.
Arrow remove from viewport, which is just going to make it invisible.
Let's go over to the engine and compile and try it out.
And once it's finished compiling, let's hit play, get ourselves killed.
And sure enough, we've got our HUD disappearing there.
Once we restart the level, it will reappear because Begin gets called again.
So that's it for this lecture.
In the next batch, we're gonna set up the actual health balls on our HUD as well as that cross-hair.
But you can see we started to pay off dividends for managing our UI within the player controller.
Because now when we've added more UI that the player controller also manages, it's able to jostle between
those two.
UI is in one class.